title: ebola virus disease – guinea summary: on 19 june 2021, the ministry of health (moh) of guinea declared the end of the ebola outbreak that affected nzérékoré prefecture, nzérékoré region, guinea. this was the first ebola outbreak in guinea since the large outbreak that affected west africa in 2014-2016. this recent outbreak was announced on 14 february 2021 following the identification of a cluster of seven suspected ebola cases in gouécké and nzérékoré city sub-prefectures in nzérékoré prefecture. between 14 february and 19 june 2021, a total of 23 cases (16 confirmed, 7 probable) were identified in four sub-prefectures of nzérékoré prefecture. of these confirmed and probable cases 11 survived and 12 died. five of the cases were health workers and one was a traditional health practitioner. the index case of this recent outbreak was a health worker.  she had onset of symptoms on 15 january 2021 and after seeking care at two health facilities and a traditional practitioner, died on 28 january 2021. she was buried on 1 february 2021 in gouécké sub-prefecture without using safe and dignified burial practices. seventeen secondary cases were reported with epidemiological links to the initial probable case between 5 february and 4 march 2021. after more than three weeks with no new cases reported, on 27 march 2021, a cluster of three community deaths was identified in soulouta sub-prefecture, and were later classified as probable cases. two individuals who had cared for and/ or attended these burials, were confirmed with ebola infection in early april 2021. one of these last two confirmed cases was lost to follow up soon after he was confirmed on 1 april 2021 and until 18 june 2021 where he was found in apparent good health. since 2 april 2021, no new confirmed or probable cases have been reported.  figure 1: weekly incidence of ebola virus disease cases in guinea by sub-prefecture
title: 1996 - ebola haemorrhagic fever in gabon (new outbreak) - update 6 overview: 25 november 1996disease outbreak reportedthe ministry of health and population reported on 19 november that the role of the ebola virus in the recent outbreak of haemorrhagic fever in the booué region had been confirmed by isolation by the who collaborating centre at the pasteur institute, paris. the isolates were very similar to those isolated from the blood of patients in mayibout in february 1996. serological results of igg and igm elisa tests showed that infection without clinical symptoms occurred among the contacts.as at 25 november, 27 cases have been identified in the outbreak which started in late july. this includes two fatal cases detected through contract tracing of the gabonese patient treated in south africa in october. the total number of deaths is 19, the last death dates back to 5 november. the declaration of the end of the outbreak will be 42 days after the last death, i.e. 17 december if no further deaths are registered.
title: 1996 - ebola haemorrhagic fever in south africa overview: 18 november 1996disease outbreak reporteda case of ebola haemorrhagic fever was confirmed in a nurse on 16 november. the illness started with mild fever on 2 november and progressed to severe headache on 6 november when she was admitted to hospital with suspected encephalitis. no evidence of encephalitis was found in cerebrospinal fluid. the patient developed a fine rash and diarrhoea and platelet count which had been low on admission continued to fall. this was accompanied by marked leukopenia and abnormal liver enzyme tests. immunofluorescence test of serum was negative for ebola virus and a range of other haemorrhagic fever viruses on 9 november. on 14 november, serum inoculated into cell cultures gave positive if reaction to ebola virus. serological results further confirmed the diagnosis. this is the first case of ebola fever diagnosed in south africa. tracing the source of the infection established that the nurse had been exposed on 29 october to the blood of a very ill doctor who had been brought from libreville, gabon on 27 october. the doctor recovered and was discharged on 11 november to convalesce in a nearby facility. he had antibody to ebola virus virus isolation is being attempted from blood specimens collected during his acute illness. the nurse was in a critical but stable state on 17 november. immediately after the laboratory confirmation, committees were established to oversee infection control, contact tracing and observation, and all other aspects of outbreak control.the information was received from the national institute for virology, sandringham, south africa which works in close collaboration with who. the institute posts further details on its web page athttp://www.healthlink.org.za/niv.the government of gabon is aware of the situation and has indicated to who that they are currently conducting further investigations to determine whether this case is linked to cases in the recent outbreak in booué.
title: 1996 - ebola haemorrhagic fever in south africa summary: 18 november 1996 disease outbreak reporteda case of ebola haemorrhagic fever wasconfirmed in a nurse on 16 november. the illness startedwith mild fever on 2 november and progressed to severeheadache on 6 november when she was admitted tohospital with suspected encephalitis. no evidence ofencephalitis was found in cerebrospinal fluid. the patientdeveloped a fine rash and diarrhoea and platelet countwhich had been low on admission continued to fall. thiswas accompanied by marked leukopenia and abnormalliver enzyme tests. immunofluorescence test of serumwas negative for ebola virus and a range of otherhaemorrhagic fever viruses on 9 november. on 14november, serum inoculated into cell cultures gavepositive if reaction to ebola virus. serological resultsfurther confirmed the diagnosis. this is the first case ofebola fever diagnosed in south africa. tracing thesource of the infection established that the nurse had beenexposed on 29 october to the blood of a very ill doctorwho had been brought from libreville, gabon on 27october. the doctor recovered and was discharged on11 november to convalesce in a nearby facility. he hadantibody to ebola virus virus isolation is being attemptedfrom blood specimens collected during his acute illness.the nurse was in a critical but stable state on 17november. immediately after the laboratory confirmation,committees were established to oversee infection control,contact tracing and observation, and all other aspects ofoutbreak control. the information was received from the national institutefor virology, sandringham, south africa which works inclose collaboration with who. the institute posts furtherdetails on its web page at http://www.healthlink.org.za/niv. the government of gabon is aware of the situation andhas indicated to who that they are currently conductingfurther investigations to determine whether this case islinked to cases in the recent outbreak in booué.
title: ebola haemorrhagic fever in the republic of the congo - update overview: 17 november 2003disease outbreak reportedas of 17 november, the ministry of health of the republic of the congo has reported 11 cases (1 laboratory-confirmed and 10 epidemiologically linked) including 11 deaths in mbomo district in cuvette ouest département (see previous report).the government of the republic of the congo has officially declared the epidemic as due to ebola haemorrhagic fever. laboratory testing carried by the institut de recherche pour le développement (ird) and the centre international de recherches médicales de franceville (cirmf), gabon, partners in theglobal outbreak alert and response network (goarn),has confirmed the diagnosis of ebola in clinical samples.the government has requested the assistance of who in controlling the outbreak. the who regional office for africa dispatched the west africa sub-regional epidemic response team which has arrived in the cuvette ouest département.